README.md, before:

# RStruct

A simpler, cleaner version of Ruby Structs, with required params.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'rstruct', github: 'jubishop/rstruct'
```

And then execute:

```sh
$ bundle install
```

## Usage

RStruct provides two class definitions:  `RStruct` and `KVStruct`.

### RStruct

`RStruct` defines a Struct that takes a flat list of parameters to its constructor.

All required params:  `MyStruct = RStruct.new(:one, :two, :three)`

All optional params:  `MyStruct = RStruct.new([:one, :two, :three])`

First param required:  `MyStruct = RStruct.new(:one, [:two, :three])`

You can of course open the classes to define additional functions, just like normal Structs:

```ruby
MyStruct = RStruct.new(:one, [:two, :three]) {
  def sayHi
    "Hello"
  end
}
```

Creating a MyStruct works as you'd expect:

```ruby
myInstance = MyStruct.new(1) # :two and :three are optional
myInstance.sayHi # "Hello"
```

### KVStruct

`KVStruct` defines a Struct that takes key value pairs.

All required params:  `MyStruct = KVStruct.new(:one, :two, :three)`

All optional params:  `MyStruct = KVStruct.new([:one, :two, :three])`

First param required:  `MyStruct = KVStruct.new(:one, [:two, :three])`

Creating these now requires key-value pairs:

```ruby
myInstance = MyStruct.new(one: 1) # :two and :three are optional
```

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/jubishop/rstruct. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [code of conduct](https://github.com/jubishop/rstruct/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the Rstruct project's codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/[USERNAME]/rstruct/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Commit message:

adding to the readme about default values to RStruct

README.md, after:

# RStruct

A simpler, cleaner version of Ruby Structs, with required params.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'rstruct', github: 'jubishop/rstruct'
```

And then execute:

```sh
$ bundle install
```

## Usage

RStruct provides two class definitions:  `RStruct` and `KVStruct`.

### RStruct

`RStruct` defines a Struct that takes a flat list of parameters to its constructor.

All required params:  `MyStruct = RStruct.new(:one, :two, :three)`

All optional params:  `MyStruct = RStruct.new([:one, :two, :three])`

First param required:  `MyStruct = RStruct.new(:one, [:two, :three])`

You can of course open the classes to define additional functions, just like normal Structs:

```ruby
MyStruct = RStruct.new(:one, [:two, :three]) {
  def sayHi
    "Hello"
  end
}
```

Creating a MyStruct works as you'd expect:

```ruby
myInstance = MyStruct.new(1) # :two and :three are optional
myInstance.sayHi # "Hello"
```

If you want to define default values for the optional params, you can override initialize:

```ruby
MyStruct = RStruct.new(:one, [:two, :three]) {
  def initialize(one, two=2, three=nil)
    super(one, two, three)
  end
}
```

Now when you create a mystruct, `.two` will have the default value `2`, but `.three` will still be `nil`:

```ruby
myInstance = MyStruct.new(1)
myInstance.two # 2
myInstance.three # nil
```

### KVStruct

`KVStruct` defines a Struct that takes key value pairs.

All required params:  `MyStruct = KVStruct.new(:one, :two, :three)`

All optional params:  `MyStruct = KVStruct.new([:one, :two, :three])`

First param required:  `MyStruct = KVStruct.new(:one, [:two, :three])`

Creating these now requires key-value pairs:

```ruby
myInstance = MyStruct.new(one: 1) # :two and :three are optional
```

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/jubishop/rstruct. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [code of conduct](https://github.com/jubishop/rstruct/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the Rstruct project's codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/[USERNAME]/rstruct/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
